Add an introductory guide (#210)
inrupt/lit-pod: website/docs/guide/motivation.md

---
id: motivation
title: Motivation
sidebar_label: Motivation
---

> [Solid](https://solidproject.org) is a wonderful project, but the technology it's built on —[RDF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resource_Description_Framework)— is unfamiliar to many developers and has a relatively high barrier to entry.

Reviewer: > has a relatively high barrier to entry.

No it has not, that's anti-RDF propaganda !

Author: We have always been at war with RDF.

Reviewer: This war has been going on for far too long, and caused far too much suffering

> The main goal of lit-pod is to make it as easy as possible for front-end engineers to get started writing web apps that store data on Solid Pods, without hampering the ability to leverage the more advanced capabilities of RDF if so desired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main goal of lit-pod is to make it as easy as possible for engineers to get started writing apps both for the browser and for Node that store data on Solid Pods by providing an abstraction layer on top of both Solid and RDF principles, without hampering the ability to leverage the more advanced capabilities of RDF if so desired.
```
I don't know if this qualifies as documenting for features we don't have, because as long as we don't have a library to log in from Node, the focus is much more on frontend, but technically nothing prevents from using lit-pod in both environments.

Author: I'll allow it :P I mean, it already works in Node for public data, and if a Node-compatible fetcher is ever developed, you can use it with lit-pod today, so from our point of view, we definitely support it.

## Goals

To achieve this, lit-pod has the following major focus areas.

### Documentation

Clear and extensive documentation is crucial when learning how to work with a new library. If any documentation is missing or is unclear, please [file a bug](https://github.com/inrupt/lit-pod/issues/new?labels=documentation&template=docs_request.md).

### Testing

There's almost nothing as confusing as being unsure whether a bug is in your own code, or in the library you use. To ensure maximum reliability, lit-pod is exposed to an extensive suite of automated tests, achieving 100% branch coverage with its unit tests.

### Interoperability

Whereas lit-pod makes it easy to get started with Solid, it should not lock you in when you are ready to move on to more advanced use cases. That's why lit-pod is compatible with the [RDF/JS specification](https://rdf.js.org), allowing you to seamlessly switch between lit-pod and libraries that support more advanced use cases for RDF.

## Non-goals

To ensure we achieve those goals, it is important to have a clear focus. Therefore, the following areas are out of scope for the foreseeable future.

### Reasoning

> While RDF is explicitly designed to support reasoning over data, it is not entirely clear yet how that would work in practice, especially in the context of Solid. Therefore, lit-pod requires you to explicitly indicate what data you are reading/writing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While RDF is explicitly designed to support reasoning over data, it is not entirely clear yet how that would work in practice, especially in the context of Solid. Therefore, lit-pod requires you to explicitly indicate what data you are reading/writing, and only data explicitly stated in the target Pod will be considered.  
```
